---
title: (ISC)2 | Certified in Cybersecurity Certification Review
date: 2023-04-04
categories: [Reviews]
tags: [review, cc, isc2, certification, cybersecurity, exam]
---


In this blogpost I want to share my experience regarding the ISC2 Certified in Cybersecurity Certification

## Content
- Giving a quick brief about the Certificate and the Exam and what you will learn from it
- Sharing my thoughts about the certificate and the exam
- Guiding you to sign up for accessing the free material as well as getting your free exam voucher and signup for your exam
- Sharing and recommending Free resources to study and practice for the exam 

## Who is (ISC)2 ?

ISC2 is a big organization specializes in training and certifications for cybersecurity professionals, It is known for its widely recognized certification which is CISSP


Recently, ISC2 announced the initiative of one million Certified in Cybersecurity (CC) program.
Aiming to put one million people through its foundational entry-level certification, Certified in Cyberseurity (CC).

Hence ISC2 offers CC course material for free as well as one exam voucher for the first one million people.

But Please Keep in mind it's not completly free, After passing the exam in order to get your certification you need to pay for **Annual Maintenance Fee (AMF)**.
It costs 50$ per year once you paid your AMF after passing the exam you will recieve your certification.

## What CC teaches you?

It provides a solid foundation knowledge, skills and abilities necessary for learning the basic concepts that drive the cybersecurity profession. Please note that this course and certification in itself will not prepare you for or provide you with job opportunities, however, it will show that you have taken the initiative to learn and expand your knowledge base in preparation to enter this field.

The Certified in Cybersecurity online self-paced education course offers and teaches the basics of following 5 domains.

-   Domain 1 -> Security Principles  
-   Domain 2 -> Business Continuity (BC), Disaster Recovery (DR) and Incident Response Concepts 
-   Domain 3 -> Access Controls Concepts  
-   Domain 4 -> Network Security  
-   Domain 5 -> Security Operations

## What is the Exam like?

The Exam must be taken physically in a testing center such as (Pearson VUE),
The Exam contains 100 total of multiple choice questions in order to pass you have to get 70% or above in time window of 2 hours.
The Exam is weighted on all the 5 domains as follows
- Domain 1 - 26%
- Domain 2 - 10%
- Domain 3 - 22%
- Domain 4 - 24%
- Domain 5 - 18%


---


Enough of that now let's talk about how I was able to get this certification in matters of 5 days (You can do it to too in less than that).

## My Review For:

### The course material

My review for this course materials, It teaches the basics and fundemental of the security as well as the culture of security and the mentality that should any security professional have.
As well as some important professional business side terms, that merges with cybersecurity technical terms.

I would recommend it to anyone who would like to get into this field as well as anyone has prior experience and would like to refresh his skills and knowledge regarding high level thought process and terms of security, Specially that it's very cheap certificate (I don't consider it FREE since there's money need to get paid in order to be certified)


### The Exam 

It was more challenging than the course material and the pre/post assessment questions,
the course material was alittle bit not enough for passing the exam.
But the good news, I will provide you for extra resources to get ready for the exam.

You can pass the exam with general knowledge and using intuition based on what you learnt from the course material.
Hence you can still passing the exam using and studying the course material


Now you know everything you need about the certification,

## How to sign up for the Free Self-Paces Training?

1. Sign up for an account in ISC2 website
[https://my.isc2.org/s/login/SelfRegister](https://my.isc2.org/s/login/SelfRegister)

2. Fill out and complete this application form
[https://my.isc2.org/s/Candidate-Application-Form](https://my.isc2.org/s/Candidate-Application-Form)
And choose the primary certification of interest (Certyified in Cybersecurity)

1. Enroll in the free training
[https://my.isc2.org/s/Candidate-Benefits/1MCC-Online-Self-Paced](https://my.isc2.org/s/Candidate-Benefits/1MCC-Online-Self-Paced)

NOTE:
in the Checkout process, Delete the Exam voucher for now and Proceed the Checkout 
Now you have access to the free Self-Based Training (Go to My Coureses)


## How to sign up for the Exam for free?

1. Using the coupon code found in here [https://my.isc2.org/s/Candidate-Benefits/1MCC-exam-instructions](https://my.isc2.org/s/Candidate-Benefits/1MCC-exam-instructions)
Or use this Coupon Code **CC1M12312023**

2. Create your Exam Account 
[https://my.isc2.org/s/ISC2-Pearson
](https://my.isc2.org/s/ISC2-Pearson
)Fill your account information
3. Choose your exam (CC) and the language

4. Choose your prefered Test Center

5. Set your appointment date and time

6. in The Checkout click on the "Add Voucher" and add your Coupon Code



## How you can get prepared for the CC?

You can nail the certification in less than a week it depends on the time you have for finishing the materials.

## Recommended Resources to get ready for the exam

**Learning Resources**
- Official (ISC)2 Certified in Cybersecurity (CC) Self-Paced Training
-  
[This Youtube Playlist (Arabic)](https://youtube.com/playlist?list=PLh2Jy0nKL_j1WZMzITHgUuzaadpSULlMm)

**Exam Practice Questions**
- ISC2 Official Pre-Course Assessment
- ISC2 Official Post-Course Assessment
- [This playlist](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLyABYqulvUwZoxZhdG0bStAPet3YhE_mm) (Free only videos)
- [Another Useful Playlist](https://youtube.com/playlist?list=PLp0Kqt2EWTuGSAydNzCjBA2Brsz4E6keC)

